# 06 - Control Props

## Background

Sometimes, people want to be able to manage the internal state of our component
from the outside. The state reducer allows them to manage what state changes are
made when a state change happens, but sometimes people may want to make state
changes themselves. We can allow them to do this with a feature called "Control
Props."

This concept is basically the same as controlled form elements in React that
you've probably used many times: ðŸ“œ
https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components

```javascript
function MyCapitalizedInput() {
  const [capitalizedValue, setCapitalizedValue] = React.useState('')

  return (
    <input
      value={capitalizedValue}
      onChange={e => setCapitalizedValue(e.target.value.toUpperCase())}
    />
  )
}
```

In this case, the "component" that's implemented the "control props" pattern is
the `<input />`. Normally it controls state itself (like if you render
`<input />` by itself with no `value` prop). But once you add the `value` prop,
suddenly the `<input />` takes the back seat and instead makes "suggestions" to
you via the `onChange` prop on the state updates that it would normally make
itself.

This flexibility allows us to change how the state is managed (by capitalizing
the value), and it also allows us to programmatically change the state whenever
we want to, which enables this kind of synchronized input situation:

```javascript
function MyTwoInputs() {
  const [capitalizedValue, setCapitalizedValue] = React.useState('')
  const [lowerCasedValue, setLowerCasedValue] = React.useState('')

  function handleInputChange(e) {
    setCapitalizedValue(e.target.value.toUpperCase())
    setLowerCasedValue(e.target.value.toLowerCase())
  }

  return (
    <>
      <input value={capitalizedValue} onChange={handleInputChange} />
      <input value={lowerCasedValue} onChange={handleInputChange} />
    </>
  )
}
```

## Exercise

In this exercise, we've created a `<Toggle />` component which can accept a prop
called `on` and another called `onChange`. These works similar to the `value`
and `onChange` props of `<input />`. Your job is to make those props actually
control the state of `on` and call the `onChange` with the suggested changes.

## Extra Credit

### ðŸ’¯ generic controlled reducer

**WARNING DO NOT LOOK AHEAD UNTIL YOU'VE FINISHED THE EXERCISE FIRST**

This one's a pretty tough extra credit, but kind of a fun one. Update the
`useToggle` hook function to this:

```javascript
function useToggle({
  initialOn = false,
  reducer = toggleReducer,
  onChange = noop,
  state: controlledState = {},
} = {}) {
  const {current: initialState} = React.useRef({on: initialOn})
  const [state, dispatch] = useControlledReducer(reducer, initialState, {
    controlledState,
    onChange,
  })
  const {on} = state

  const toggle = () => dispatch({type: useToggle.types.toggle})
  const reset = () => dispatch({type: useToggle.types.reset, initialState})

  function getTogglerProps({onClick, ...props} = {}) {
    return {
      'aria-pressed': on,
      onClick: callAll(onClick, toggle),
      ...props,
    }
  }

  return {
    on,
    reset,
    toggle,
    getTogglerProps,
  }
}
```

Create that `useControlledReducer` custom hook and make it so this exercise
still behaves the same as it had before.

As a hint, the final solution is ~25 lines long and uses the following utilities
from `lodash` (though you don't have to do it this way):

- `omitBy`
- `isUndefined`
- `isEqual`
